# CHAP_Analyzer
Rscript used to manipulate the CHAP output so that manual data curation is reduced. This can help users select individuals that have editing profiles of interest. The script reads in CHAP and CHAP.Stats files from a specific SRU run. These files are merged in order to associate PED-IDs, Aliases, and Pedigrees housed in Chap.stats with the Deletion information housed in CHAP. The merged data undergoes a series of modifications to be able to perform analysis on PED-IDs with the Boosted gene targets. The final output provides an indepth view of editing results for each plant material submitted for sequencing. In Particular the deletion size is available as a stand alone column as are the reads associated with that deletion, the percent read representation for that deletion relative to all reads associated with the Plant material + Gene target combination (e.g. E-PED060-100+Spo11). There are also columns dedicated to providing a threshold for reliable data. 

Column Outline:
  
Legit_Read: provides a yes/no call based on two criteria, If the row has less than 8 reads or 8% read representation it is considered unreliable and labeled no. 
FS_Edit: Provides a yes/no call based on whether the deletion column value is divisible by 3. If it is it gets a no. If it is not it gets a yes.
Rec8_Edited: Provides a yes/no call based on whether a row with PRS078 (Rec8) has a deletion that is not a 3 base pair deletion (bpd) or has a 3bpd or is WT. If it has a 3bpd or is      WT it is not considered edited and recieves a no. All other deletion sizes are considered Yes.
Spo11_Edited: Provides a yes/no call based on whether a row the PRS257 (Spo11) has any deletion other than a 6bpd that occurs at location 6D2017 in the cigar string. If there is a       deletion and it is not a 6bpd that occurs at location 6D2017 then it is considered knocked out (recieves a yes) otherwise it recieves a no.
Full_FS: Provides a yes/no call based on whether the specific Gene target has frameshift edits for all reads associated with that specific plant material and gene target. If the two TAMg9 deletions are not divisible by 3 (two yes's in the FS_Edit column) then it the two Full_FS columns will get Yes's
Responsible_PRS: Provides the PRS that was fully knocked out. So if all reads are yes's for a target in the Full_FS column then print the PRS#. If TAMg9 has 2 FS knockouts then "PRS658" is printed
Keeper: Provides a codename for the editing profile achieved. For example "TableSpark" is an individual edited for all three boosted targets TAM,Rec, and Spo.
